#summary Topics assigned by Maui to sample documents

= Examples of topic indexing with Maui =

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

All examples are produced using data sets available for download under [Resources] and [MultiplyIndexedData].


==Automatic tagging with Maui==

We run a test on 180 documents from [http://www.citeulike.org CiteULike]. For each document, tags on which at least two human taggers agreed were considered as correct. All other tags as incorrect. Maui achieved F-Measure of nearly 50%, i.e. a half of the top 10 automatically extracted tags were correct.

Here are three examples of different performance levels. Numbers in brackets indicate how many people agreed on this tag. Bold indicates a correct term. Italic indicates that Maui matched a tag assigned by one person.

*Excellent performance* (F-Measure 80%). [http://www.citeulike.org/article/101973 Different time courses of learning-related activity in the prefrontal cortex and striatum]

<table border=1>
<tr>
<td>*At least two taggers*</td>
<td>*One tagger*</td>
<td>*Maui*</td>
</tr>

<tr>

<td valign=top>
learning (5)<br></br>
striatum (4)<br></br>
monkey (3)<br></br>
prefrontal cortex (2)<br></br>
reversal (2)
</td>

<td valign=top>
basalganglia, rt, dlpfc,<br></br>
prefrontal, caudate, pfc,<br></br>
stimulusresponseassociation,<br></br>
neurophysiology, dynamics,<br></br>
striatothalamocortical
</td>

<td valign=top>
*learning*<br></br>
*striatum*<br></br>
*monkey*<br></br>
*prefrontal cortex*<br></br>
_basal ganglia_
</td>

</tr>
</table>

*Average performance* (F-Measure 46%). [http://www.citeulike.org/article/1322886 Global and regional drivers of accelerating CO2 emissions]

<table border=1>
<tr>
<td>*At least two taggers*</td>
<td>*One tagger*</td>
<td>*Maui*</td>
</tr>
<tr>

<td valign=top>
co2 (3)<br></br>
emissions (3)<br></br>
carbon (2)<br></br>
ipcc (2)<br></br>
economics (2)<br></br>
climate (2)<br></br>
projections (2)<br></br>
regional (2)
</td>

<td valign=top>
global, scenarios,<br></br>
sres, china
</td>

<td valign=top>
*co2*<br></br>
*emissions*<br></br>
*carbon*<br></br>
_global_<br></br>
energy
</td>
</tr>
</table>

*Poor performance* (F-Measure 0%). [http://www.citeulike.org/article/1272477 Drought sensitivity shapes species distribution patterns in tropical forests.]

<table border=1>
<tr>
<td>*At least two taggers*</td>
<td>*One tagger*</td>
<td>*Maui*</td>
</tr>
<tr>

<td valign=top>
precipitation (2)<br></br>
drought (2)<br></br>
ecology (2)<br></br>
vegetation (2)<br></br>
climate (2)
</td>

<td valign=top>
tropical, tropic
</td>

<td valign=top>
_tropical_<br></br>
tropical forests<br></br>
drought sensitivity<br></br>
species<br></br>
regional
</td>
</tr>
</table>


<hr>

==Assignment of Wikipedia terms to Computer Science articles==

In this experiment, 20 computer science technical reports were used. Each document received topics from 15 teams of graduate students. [MultiplyIndexedData Multiple data set] was used to compute Maui's consistency with the consistency of people with each other. On average Maui outperforms 8 of the human teams. 

Consistency analysis is used to show three different levels of Maui's performance. Numbers in brackets indicate how many human teams chose that topic.

*Excellent performance*. Maui: 52%, people 42%

Document _Occam's razor: The cutting edge for parser technology_
<table  border=1>
<tr>
<td>
*Most frequent topics by 15 teams*
</td>
<td>
*Topics assigned by Maui*
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Yacc (13)<br></br>
Parsing (12)<br></br>
Compiler-compiler (9)<br></br>
Backus Naur form (9)<br></br>
Compiler (6)
</td>
<td valign=top>
Yacc (13)<br></br>
Parsing (12)<br></br>
Compiler-compiler (9)<br></br>
Compiler (6)<br></br>
Programming language (4)
</td>
</tr>
</table>


*Average performance*. Maui: 30%, people 53%

Document _A Safe, Efficient Regression Test Selection Technique_
<table  border=1>
<tr>
<td>
*Most frequent topics by 15 teams*
</td>
<td>
*Topics assigned by Maui*
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Regression testing (15)<br></br>
Software maintenance (13)<br></br>
Control flow graph (10)<br></br>
Software testing (9)<br></br>
Algorithm (7)
</td>
<td valign=top>
Software maintenance (13)<br></br>
Algorithm (7)<br></br>
Test suite (2)<br></br>
Computer software (1)<br></br>
Control flow (0)
</td>
</tr>
</table>


*Poor performance*. Maui: 17%, people 17%

Document _Cone trees in the UGA graphics system_
<table  border=1>
<tr>
<td>
*Most frequent topics by 15 teams*
</td>
<td>
*Topics assigned by Maui*
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Hierarchical model (7)<br></br>
3D computer graphics (7)<br></br>
Visualization (graphic) (6)<br></br>
Tree (data structure) (5)<br></br>
Computer graphics (3)
</td>
<td valign=top>
Computer graphics (3)<br></br>
Visualization (2)<br></br>
PARC (company) (2)<br></br>
Visual display unit (0)<br></br>
Graphics (0)
</td>
</tr>
</table>


<hr>

==Assignment of Agrovoc terms to English, French and Spanish documents==

Will be added soon



<hr>

==Indexing with Medical Subject Headings==

After training on 450 documents from PubMed, Maui assigned MeSH terms like the following. 

Document _Determining lifestyle correlates of body mass index using multilevel analyses_.

<table  border=1>
<tr>
<td>
*assigned by professionals*
</td>
<td>
*assigned by Maui*
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Adult<br></br>
Aged<br></br>
Body Mass Index<br></br>
Female<br></br>
Humans<br></br>
Life Style<br></br>
Linear Models<br></br>
Longitudinal Studies<br></br>
Male<br></br>
Middle Aged<br></br>
Norway<br></br>
Obesity<br></br>
Questionnaires<br></br>
Risk Factors<br></br>
Urban Population
</td>
<td valign=top>
Aged<br></br>
Body Mass Index<br></br>
Cardiovascular Diseases<br></br>
Humans<br></br>
Longitudinal Studies<br></br>
Middle Aged<br></br>
Motor Activity<br></br>
Norway<br></br>
Risk Factors
</td>
</tr>
</table>


<hr>

==Subject indexing with High Energy Physics thesaurus terms==

Example document from CERN Document server
_Two-loop electroweak corrections to Higgs production at hadron colliders._

<table border=1>
<tr>
<td>
*assigned by professionals*
</td><td>
*assigned by Maui*
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign=top>
quark: top<br></br>
Higgs mass<br></br>
standard model<br></br>
LHC-B<br></br>
quantum chromodynamic<br></br>
spontaneous symmetry breaking<br></br>
Higgs boson<br></br>
symmetry breaking<br></br>
intermediate boson: mass 
</td>
<td valign=top>
quark: top<br></br>
Higgs particle<br></br>
standard model<br></br>
LHC-B<br></br>
quantum chromodynamics<br></br>
cross section<br></br>
Higgs particle: mass<br></br>
hadron: production<br></br>
gluon: fusion<br></br>
boson
</td>
</tr>
</table>